We can't use user effect here, right?
So, how are we gonna get
information back from the API?
Cuz we have to do something
when the component first load,
cuz we have to request
the animal data from the API.
So, how are we gonna do that?
Well, these class components have
something called lifecycle methods.
So, there's one that we can
create here called component.
You can see this even completes here,
which is kind of cool.
ComponentDidMount is the one
that we're interested in.
So, componentDidMount,
this function gets run after it gets
rendered to the DOM for
the very first time, right?
So, it's gonna run this once.
And when it runs at once it's gonna do
this, it's gonna say loading then after
that rendering is complete then it's
gonna called component did mount.
So, if you remember,
it's gonna be basically
the same as us effectbBlur this, right.
Where you have like this empty
array of like no dependencies,
remember when we did that
earlier in the course,
component did mount is essentially
the same thing as this.
There's probably some pedantic
differences that we could get into
that I don't care about.
But suffice to say that the end
up being the same thing.
Does that make sense?
So, now we have this function that we can
run whenever this first gets mounted and
we can do our API request here.
And the nice thing is
we can make it async.
So, that like all the code
looks really nice.
We can use async await.
I don't believe it has to be
async if you don't need it to be,
but I just kind of always make it
async cuz it makes it easy for me.
So, we're gonna make a request to the API.
So, const res equals await, fetch.
And then we'll do http colon // pets- v 2
.dev-API's.com/pets:ID=
And we're gonna get this.props.params.id
So, that's another big difference
here that we should probably discuss.
We're used to taking props in here, right?
As a parameter to the render function.
That's not the case in
class components here.
So, what you're gonna do instead
is you're gonna refer to it
as this stopprops.whatever, right?
Which is what we're doing here.
We're gonna expect something
called props.params.id.
Okay, and then after res, we're gonna say
constant JSON equals await res dot JSON.
And then here,
instead of calling our set function, so,
const JSON equals await res dot JSON and
then what you used to do is,
he used to call use state, so,
you'd have like you set pets function or
set breed function.
There's just like one function
now called set state.
So, what you do now is you say this dot
set state, and then you're gonna basically
call it with like an update of what you
whenever you wanna set your state to be.
So, in this particular case, We
could call set state twice here and
say like loading false, right?
Cuz this loads in a loading true state,
right?
And this would update it.
So that loading would be set to false.
And then we could call
again with this .setState.
Have whatever JSON
comes back with.
And what do I have to call it with,
I can't remember JSON dot pets zero,
like that.
Cuz this is gonna be like the animal
breed city state description name of
the animal that we found, right.
However, we can make this,
so, a little bit better and
just do it all at one time and say this
dot set state with an object dot assign.
And we can do loading: false.
And here we'll put jason.pets0.
So, what I have here on line 17 is
equivalent to what we put here on line 19.
It's just done in one statement so
that react gets it all at once instead of
getting it in two different sets, days.
Typically react to smart enough to say.
I'm gonna wait.
I'm gonna batch all these changes and
do them at once, but you can never have
any guarantee what reaction is
going to batch of what it's not.
And it's bad if it doesn't match this
because then it's gonna re-render
twice, right?
Cuz you called set state twice and
it'll cause a rear-end her every
time that you call setState.
So, it's better where you can
to just call setState once.
It's not always possible and that's okay.
Typically, we're splitting hairs here,
right?
But, this is easy enough for
us to just do it in one fell swoop, so
we're gonna do it it that way.
So, that's how state works with component,
components is gonna keep
track of this internal links.
Let's do it this way.
This like internal state object
of like loading false and
then as soon as we were gonna
set this eventually to true and
then it's going to add things like name,
Luna and City Seattle, right?
And then if you call set state
again with I don't know,
maybe she moves to Salt Lake City, right?
And so, that's how class components
are they have this internal
state that's mutable that you can change,
but the only way that you can
change it is by calling set state.
The reason why you wanna call set state
as opposed to just saying this dot state
dot name equals something else, right,
is that React is not tracking this, right?
You have to let React know
that state is changing so
that it can queue updates appropriately.
This is not Angular with
two way data binding.
Terrible idea we should
have never done it, right?
So, does that make sense of like how
state is working with class components?
Yeah, Mark.
>> Reason for using fetch over x use.
>> Yeah, why are we using fetch here
instead of using like a library
like axial or something else?
Cuz fetch is built into the browser,
axial is a powerful, requests library.
And it's also fairly nice to use.
But we're literally just
doing GET requests to an API.
And if you're doing that
fetch is more than enough.
I mean,
this is a pretty pleasant API to use.
It's kind of strange.
You have to do like the await twice,
but, You just get used to it, I suppose.
I don't know, I got used to it.
I don't have a reason other than
the simple thing works for me.
One last thing here is,
we need the ID to get in here, right?
Cuz this is a route,
it's gonna come from React router.
And we need to use use param because
that is the only way to get param out of
React router.
So, how do we do it?
Well, you're probably gonna not be super
impressed with this way of doing it,
but that's how you have to do it.
So, we're gonna wrap it
in another component.
Wrapped details equals this and
then here we can say const
params equals use params.
And then we can just return
details with the params passed in.
Okay, and
then here you just export rat details.
I imagine many of you are looking at
like what the actual hell are we doing
here, right.
But, the other way of doing it was
relatively the same way like the way that
we used to do this with React router or
with basically like Redux or
anything like that they were
called higher order components.
It's essentially the same thing just with
more ceremonial circumstances it felt
more official.
This is actually probably a way simpler
way of doing it rather than exposing two
different API's just using a hook and
then passing that into the component.
Ends up being the simplest answer and this
is actually fairly obvious of how this
works whereas higher order components.
There was a lot of indirection of
how stuff was working and made,
fairly confusing.
So, any questions about that, yeah, Mark.
>> Is there any difference between using
object assign versus the spread operator.
>> So, here, Yeah,
you could have used object spread.
You absolutely could have said, In fact,
let's just rewrite it that way.
That's actually a fairly
good way of doing it.
I think that the reason I did it the other
way is just force a habit to be honest
with you.
Less dense if we do it this way,
I forget about object spread.
So, this and what I had before
are functionally the same thing.
This is called the spread operator that
it's basically doing object.assign.
In fact, if you look at the polyfill for
it, it literally does objects that assign.
Yep.
Okay, so let me just go make sure
that this actually works with it.
I anticipate that it should.
And it does.
So now, we actually get like
a nice little lunar page.
So, it looks like
everything is working here.
Yeah, I showed you how to use
hooks with class components and
it's just make a wrapping component.
That's a fairly common thing
to have to do in React now.
Especially the inner out
interoperate between the two.
I showed her how to refer to props,
right, instead of that being
passed in here to render it just
gets assigned to be on this.
So, the one thing I'll say with class
components in particular is you
have to make sure that
you know what this is.
With componentDidMount we know every
time the componentDidMount gets called,
this is going to be correct.
But let's say we use setTimeout in here.
Let's say for whatever reason we needed
to wait five seconds before we did this.
You could do a setTimeout and
then you do Blur, do stuff and
then after five seconds do it.
And then here if I tried to say like
console dot log, this dot state.
What is this stick gonna be here?
Tenant the job interview,
I'm just kidding.
It's gonna it's gonna be undefined, right?
Because it's not called in the context.
We're getting into like splitting details.
Now, there's lots of good front
of masters stuff on this, but
this is actually gonna be, we called
outside of the context of react, right?
So, this is not actually going to
refer to, the details instance.
I mean, I think we can just load it up and
you'll see.
I should have put a shorter one because
it's actually gonna wait five seconds.
It did?
Because you're using the arrow.
>> Because,
>> You had like an actual function.
>> Yeah, you're right.
So, I mean, you can see even I
get tripped up on the stumps and
I've been doing this for forever.
Let's make this one.
So, now you can see it's undefined.
Indepent depends on what style
of function I wrote, right?
So, an arrow function doesn't
create lexical context is actually,
so, it does create a see, I can't
even remember off the top of my head.
I'd have to go think about it some more,
but suffice to say that the arrow function
will allow you to use the function
context wherever it was invoked.
Whereas if you call function, it's
actually going to use it from this call
side, and the call side has no context and
with set timeout, for example.
In other words,
this becomes very important and
you need to know what this is.
Most of the time it's
what you expect it to be.
But if you're doing
things like set timeout,
and then the other big got
you is with event listeners,
because event listener is doing it from
the same place, which is context less.
Cool, okay, that's my spiel.
With React Router five, they used to have
something called with router which is,
basically what this did it passed
a instance of router in as a prop.
So, instead of doing this you
do like export default detail or
with router Details like that.
And that's how you do this kind of thing.
They got rid of that API because they're
like this is basically the same thing and
allows you to have more control over it.
So, in the end,
I think it ended up being a better API.
I linked the issue in there where they
explain their reasoning if you wanna get
into the depth of why
they did it this way.
And then the other thing here I wanted
to talk about I showed you component did
mount, there's like component will
unmount, there's component did unmount,
there's can component did catch,
which is for errors.
We'll actually look at that
one here in a little bit.
There's a bunch of life cycle methods here
that I'm not gonna show you because like I
said, class components are way less
important than they used to be.
So, there are several things that you
could only do in class component that
catches one of them like
doing error boundaries.
And there's sometimes I still like writing
class component because, I would write
this one as a function component because
there's nothing here that we're doing this
really requires a class component and
they're just faster to write.
And also now that's the way
that the ecosystem works.
But sometimes when I wanna use like
all of the lifecycle methods and
those kind of like line up with my line of
thinking, I'll use a class component but
that's kind of the exception
now as opposed to the rule.
Yeah, I think that's a good feels,
most time use function components.
If you have something that like fits your
frame of thinking in the class components
right away then use a class component.
Yeah.
>> Would you say this also
false into that category of like, right,
it is a functional component first and
if you use effectors and give you
the granular control that you want and
maybe switch to a class component
>> Yeah,
I'd be okay with someone saying that.
Yeah, I mean, they're pretty
easy to switch back and forth